IPFS Setup/ installation tutorial (#263)
protocol/launchpad: content/en/curriculum/ipfs/setup.md

- deep
---

## Background
In this tutorial you can get started by installing go-ipfs (also known as kubo), and starting & stopping a node

## Prerequisites
* The [latest version of Go (golang)](https://go.dev/doc/install)
* A shell where you can run Unix-type commands either on a Mac, or (Li)Unix machine, or Windows [Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-on-windows?view=powershell-7.2)
  * Optional: [a Linux VM like Multipass](https://multipass.run/)
* Install [wget](https://www.tecmint.com/install-wget-in-linux/) on the operating system (OS) you are using
* IPFS Docs' [installation instructions](https://docs.ipfs.io/install/command-line/#system-requirements)

## Instructions

### Video – Getting Started with IPFS

> This video is the basic setup for ipfs-go on a linux machine, using [wget](https://www.tecmint.com/install-wget-in-linux/) to grab the resources. You will also `ipfs init` a node and get it running with `ipfs daemon`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This video is the basic setup for [kubo](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo) on a linux machine, using [wget](https://www.tecmint.com/install-wget-in-linux/) to grab the resources. You will also `ipfs init` a node and get it running with `ipfs daemon`.
```

{{< youtube A7yZaYhrwyM >}}

### Install go-ipfs (kubo)
Refer to the [IPFS Docs' installation instructions](https://docs.ipfs.io/install/command-line/#system-requirements) for the operating system you are using.

### Initialize an IPFS Node
First you will want to verify that you have ipfs correctly installed on your machine.

* Run the command `ipfs --version` to check it is installed. If you don't get a version number, try uninstalling & installing again.

Before you can run the ipfs daemon, you have to initialize and instance of IPFS on your machine, creating a node identity identified with `peer identity:` in the output of the CLI.

* Run `ipfs init` in the CLI

> In the folder where you have initialized your node, you should be able to see a config file which has data about your node. Run the command to list the directories as a long list (`-l`) where hidden (`-a`) files aren't ignored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the folder where you have initialized your node, you should be able to see a config file called `.ipfs`, which has data about your node. Run the command to list the directories as a long list (`-l`) where hidden (`-a`) files aren't ignored
```
